FPL DREAM TEAM
This website resolves around a concept called Fantasy Premier League (FPL), a popular online game where you select 
and manage a virtual team of football players playing in the English Premier League. The goal of the game is 
to get as many points as possible throughout the season, where points are awarded based on some predefined 
metrics of how the players in your virtual team are performing in real life. A season consists of 38 rounds, 
or gameweeks as they are called in FPL. For each gameweek, there will always be a team with the highest 
possible score for that gameweek, and the purpose of this site is to predict these 'dream teams' for every gameweek. 

MODELS AND DATA
The dream team predictions are based on a supervised machine learning model called Neural Network. This model 
has learned to predict individual player scores by processing data on the last four seasons of FPL, and the score 
predictions are primarily based on selected performance metrics from the last three gameweeks for each player.  
Moreover, the model consists of four sub-models, each specialized on one of the four player positions that exist in 
FPL. The data used to train the model is available through the official FPL API.

TEAM SELECTION 
The teams are selected using an optimization algorithm called Simplex. This algorithm optimizes the team in a locked 3-4-3 formation 
based on the model predictions. The team values is limited at 83 million, and all other team constraints that exist in FPL are also considered
by this algorithm. Furthermore, each team has a captain and a vice-captain, and these are selected based on the two highest score predictions. 

PERFORMANCE
In order to evaluate the performance of the dream teams, their scores are compared to the scores of the Scout Selection teams. These teams are made
prior to every gameweek by the official expert panel of FPL, and they follow the exact same constrains. For gameweek 4 to gameweek 9 this season, 
the Scout Selection teams have a cumulative score of 326 points, which would place them roughly among the top 27% in FPL. In comparison, the
dream teams on this site have a cumulative score of 383 points. This would roughly be awarded with a place among the top 2%, which is significantly
better than the Scout Selection teams. One important note here is that both the dream teams and the Scout Selection teams operate with slightly  
different constraints than the rest of the teams in FPL, so the placements mentioned are not exact. 

FUTURE WORK
This website will be updated continuously in the future as improvements are made. One improvement would be to improve the prediction model 
by providing more data, like xG, odds and other more subtle metrics, as well as improving the model itself. Other improvements include
extensions like incorporating the concepts of player transfers and chips in FPL into the model. The ultimate ambition of this website is to 
create a computer program that can master every concept and nuance of FPL and eventually play the game itself and beat the rest of the world.


-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


What is this?
The "dream teams" presented are the results of a machine learning project using a combination 
of a Deep Neural Network and the Simplex algorithm to predict points scored for Fantasy Premier 
League (FPL) players. All teams are predicted on unseen data and the true points scored are added 
after each gameweek. 

Models
The model differentiates on positions and is trained on performances metrics like goals, assists, 
bonus points, fixture difficulty and goals conceded from all FPL from the seasons of 2016/2017 to 
2019/2020 to predict the points scored in the present season. 

Finding the best team
The Neural Network predicts scores for each player for the coming gameweek based on historical 
statistics. The Simplex algorithm is used to produce the optimal team based on the same constraints 
as in the game. The maximum total cost of the team is set to be 83 as this account for the cheapest 
possible bench. 

How well does the team perform?
For gameweek 4 to 9 the predicted team comfortably outperforms the official FPL scout selection 
and averages a score of X which would see it performing among the top 2% players of the game. 
Note that the team has unlimited transfers for each round so the results are not absolutely 
comparable to real players, but are still impressive. 

Future work
We plan on continuously updating the models with more statistics like xG, odds and chance of 
playing as well as developing a more sophisticated model capable of making strategic decisions 
on transfers, wildcards and chips.

See this github link for code.